CASMPET-5721 Create Kyverno.md (#1850)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/kyverno/Kyverno.md

It allows you to:
* Manage policies as Kubernetes resources.
* Validate, mutate, and generate resource configurations.
* Select resources based on labels and wildcards.
* Block non-conformant resources using admission controls, or report policy violations.
* View policy enforcement as events.
* Scan existing resources for violations.

Kyverno policies implement the various levels of Kubernetes [Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) for CSM services. The policies are minimally restrictive and enforces the best practices for Pods. The policies make sure the following values are set for workloads (if not present).

```
securityContext:
  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
  privileged: false
  runAsUser: 65534
  runAsNonRoot: true
  runAsGroup: 65534
```

Currently, [mutation](#mutation) and [validation](#validation) policies are enforced for the network services such as load balancer and virtualservice.

> <a name="mutation"></a>

Author: Done

## Mutation

Mutation policies are applied in admission controller while creating pods. It mutates the manifest of respective workloads before creating it so that when resource comes up, it will abide by the policy constraints.

######Example:

Step 1: Create a sample policy
```
apiVersion: kyverno.io/v1
kind: Policy
metadata:
  name: add-default-securitycontext
spec:
  rules:
  - name: set-container-security-context
    match:
      resources:
        kinds:
        - Pod
        selector:
          matchLabels:
            app: nginx
    mutate:
      patchStrategicMerge:
        spec:
          containers:
          - (name): "*"
            securityContext:
              +(allowPrivilegeEscalation): false
              +(privileged): false
```

Step 2: Create a simple pod
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx:1.14.2
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80
```

We can list all the policies using following command

```bash
bash# kubectl get pol -A

> NAMESPACE            NAME                        BACKGROUND   ACTION   READY

Reviewer: Separate the output from the command. For example...

Example output:

```text
NAMESPACE            NAME                        BACKGROUND   ACTION   READY
default              add-default-securitycontext true         audit    true
…
```

Author: Done

default              add-default-securitycontext true         audit    true
…
```

> Step 3: Check the manifest after applying the policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check the manifest after applying the policy.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```
This code block should be indented under the step.

...
  spec:
    containers:
    - image: nginx:1.14.2
      imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
      name: nginx
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
        protocol: TCP
      resources:
        requests:
          cpu: 10m
          memory: 64Mi
      securityContext:
        allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
        privileged: false
      terminationMessagePath: /dev/termination-log
      terminationMessagePolicy: File
      volumeMounts:
      - mountPath: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount
        name: default-token-vgggw
        readOnly: true
...
```

> Step 4: Edit the policy to add one more field and apply the policy again

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Edit the policy to add one more field and apply the policy again.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```
This code block should be indented under the step.

apiVersion: kyverno.io/v1
kind: Policy
metadata:
  name: add-default-securitycontext
spec:
  rules:
  - name: set-container-security-context
    match:
      resources:
        kinds:
        - Pod
        selector:
          matchLabels:
            app: nginx
    mutate:
      patchStrategicMerge:
        spec:
          containers:
          - (name): "*"
            securityContext:
              +(allowPrivilegeEscalation): false
              +(privileged): false
              +(runAsNonRoot): true
```

> If any of the workloads fails to come up after enforcing the policy, we can delete individual policies and restart the workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any of the workloads fail to come up after enforcing the policy, then delete the individual policies and restart the workload.
```

> Step 5: Check the pod description when the pod fails to come up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Check the pod description when the pod fails to come up.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```
Indent the code block under the step.

> bash# kubectl get pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get pods
```

> NAME    READY   STATUS                       RESTARTS   AGE

Reviewer: Separate input/output into different codeblocks.

Author: Done

nginx   0/1     CreateContainerConfigError   0          5s

bash# kubectl describe pods
Name:         nginx
Namespace:    default
.
.
.
Events:
  Type     Reason            Age                            From               Message
  ----     ------            ----                           ----               -------
  Normal   Scheduled         <invalid>                      default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/nginx to ncn-w003-b7534262
  Warning  DNSConfigForming  <invalid> (x9 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Search Line limits were exceeded, some search paths have been omitted, the applied search line is: default.svc.cluster.local svc.cluster.local cluster.local vshasta.io us-central1-b.c.vsha-sri-ram-35682334251634485.internal c.vsha-sri-ram-35682334251634485.internal
  Normal   Pulled            <invalid> (x8 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Container image "nginx:1.14.2" already present on machine
  Warning  Failed            <invalid> (x8 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Error: container has runAsNonRoot and image will run as root (pod: "nginx_default(0ea1d573-219a-4927-b3c3-c76150d35a7a)", container: nginx)
```

> Step 6: Incase of a failure(step 5), delete the policy and restart the workload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. If the previous step failed, delete the policy and restart the workload.
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: Indent codeblock under step.

Author: Done

> bash# kubectl delete pol -n default add-default-securitycontext

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl delete pol -n default add-default-securitycontext
```

```

> Step 7: Check the pod status after deleting the policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Check the pod status after deleting the policy.
```

```bash

> bash# kubectl get pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get pods
```

> NAME    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE

Reviewer: Separate input/output.

Author: Done

nginx   1/1     Running   0          6s
```

> <a name="validation"></a>

Author: Done

## Validation

Validation policies can be applied any time in audit and enforce modes. Violation is only reported in case of **audit** mode and it blocks the resources from coming up when applied in **enforce** mode. Also, it generates the report of policy violation in respective workloads. Check out the following example of validation policy in audit mode -

######Example:

Step 1: Add the following policy before applying [mutation](#mutation) to workload

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```
Indent codeblock

apiVersion: kyverno.io/v1
kind: Policy
metadata:
  name: validate-securitycontext
spec:
  background: true
  validationFailureAction: audit
  rules:
  - name: container-security-context
    match:
      resources:
        kinds:
        - Pod
        selector:
          matchLabels:
            app: nginx
    validate:
      message: "Non root security context is not set."
      pattern:
        spec:
          containers:
          - (name): "*"
            securityContext:
              allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
              privileged: false
```
The policy report status can be fetched using the following command –

```bash
bash# kubectl get polr -A

> NAMESPACE  NAME                   PASS   FAIL   WARN   ERROR   SKIP   AGE

Author: Done

default    polr-ns-default        0      1      0      0       0      25d
…
```

Detailed policy report can be fetched using following command –

```bash
bash# kubectl get polr -n default polr-ns-default -o yaml
…

> results:

Author: Done

- message: 'validation error: Non root security context is not set. Rule container-security-context
    failed at path /spec/containers/0/securityContext/'
  policy: validate-securitycontext
  resources:
  - apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    name: nginx
    namespace: default
    uid: 319e5b09-6027-4d90-b3da-6aa1f14573ff
  result: fail
  rule: container-security-context
  scored: true
  source: Kyverno
  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1654594319
summary:
  error: 0
  fail: 1
  pass: 0
  skip: 0
  warn: 0
```

Step 2: Apply mutation policy and restart the following workload

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```

apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx:1.14.2
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80
```

> Step 3: Check the policy report status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check the policy report status.
```

```bash

> bash# kubectl get polr -A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get polr -A
```

> 

Reviewer: Separate input/output

Author: Done

NAMESPACE  NAME                   PASS   FAIL   WARN   ERROR   SKIP   AGE
default    polr-ns-default        1      0      0      0       0      25d
…
```

> This shows that the mutation policy for the workload was enforced properly. If there’s any discrepancy, we can look at the detailed policy report to triage the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This shows that the mutation policy for the workload was enforced properly.
If there are any discrepancies, we can look at the detailed policy report to triage the issue.
```

> ## Known issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Known issues

```

```text
securityContext:
  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
  privileged: false
  runAsUser: 65534
  runAsNonRoot: true
  runAsGroup: 65534
```

Currently, [mutation](#mutation) and [validation](#validation) policies are enforced for the network services such as load balancer and virtualservice.

## Mutation

Mutation policies are applied in the admission controller while creating pods.

It mutates the manifest of respective workloads before creating it so that when resource comes up, it will abide by the policy constraints.

### Example

1. Create a sample policy.
    ```text
    apiVersion: kyverno.io/v1
    kind: Policy
    metadata:
      name: add-default-securitycontext
    spec:
    rules:
      - name: set-container-security-context
        match:
          resources:
            kinds:
            - Pod
            selector:
              matchLabels:
                app: nginx
        mutate:
          patchStrategicMerge:
            spec:
              containers:
              - (name): "*"
                securityContext:
                  +(allowPrivilegeEscalation): false
                  +(privileged): false
    ```

2. Create a simple pod.

>     ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    ```text
```

    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
    containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
    ```

    List all of the policies with the following command:

    ```bash

>     kubectl get pol -A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubectl get pol -A
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
```

    NAMESPACE            NAME                        BACKGROUND   ACTION   READY
    default              add-default-securitycontext true         audit    true
    …
    ```

3. Check the manifest after applying the policy.

>     ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    ```text
```

    ...
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: nginx:1.14.2
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: nginx
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
          protocol: TCP
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 10m
            memory: 64Mi
        securityContext:
          allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
          privileged: false
        terminationMessagePath: /dev/termination-log
        terminationMessagePolicy: File
        volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount
          name: default-token-vgggw
          readOnly: true
    ...
    ```

4. Edit the policy to add one more field and apply the policy again.

>     ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    ```text
```

    Type     Reason            Age                            From               Message
    ----     ------            ----                           ----               -------
    Normal   Scheduled         <invalid>                      default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/nginx to ncn-w003-b7534262
    Warning  DNSConfigForming  <invalid> (x9 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Search Line limits were exceeded, some search paths have been omitted, the applied search line is: default.svc.cluster.local svc.cluster.local cluster.local vshasta.io us-central1-b.c.vsha-sri-ram-35682334251634485.internal c.vsha-sri-ram-35682334251634485.internal
    Normal   Pulled            <invalid> (x8 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Container image "nginx:1.14.2" already present on machine
    Warning  Failed            <invalid> (x8 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Error: container has runAsNonRoot and image will run as root (pod: "nginx_default(0ea1d573-219a-4927-b3c3-c76150d35a7a)", container: nginx)
    ```

6. If the previous step failed, delete the policy and restart the workload.
    ```bash
    kubectl delete pol -n default add-default-securitycontext
    ```

> 7. Check the pod status after deleting the policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. (`ncn#`) Check the pod status after deleting the policy.
```

    ```bash

>     kubectl get pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubectl get pods
    ```

    Example output:
    
    ```text
```

    nginx   1/1     Running   0          6s
    ```

## Validation

Validation policies can be applied any time in `audit` and `enforce` modes.

Violation is only reported in case of `audit` mode and it blocks the resources from coming up when applied in `enforce` mode.

Also, it generates the report of policy violation in respective workloads. The following is an example of the validation policy in `audit` mode.

### Example

1. Add the following policy before applying the [mutation](#mutation) to the workload.
    ```text
    apiVersion: kyverno.io/v1
    kind: Policy
    metadata:
      name: validate-securitycontext
    spec:
      background: true
      validationFailureAction: audit
      rules:
      - name: container-security-context
        match:
          resources:
            kinds:
            - Pod
            selector:
              matchLabels:
                app: nginx
        validate:
          message: "Non root security context is not set."
          pattern:
            spec:
              containers:
              - (name): "*"
                securityContext:
                  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
                  privileged: false
    ```

>     View the policy report status with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    (`ncn#`) View the policy report status with the following command:
```

    ```bash

>     kubectl get polr -A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubectl get polr -A
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
```

    NAMESPACE  NAME                   PASS   FAIL   WARN   ERROR   SKIP   AGE
    default    polr-ns-default        0      1      0      0       0      25d
    …
    ```

    View a detailed policy report with the following command:

    ```bash

>     kubectl get polr -n default polr-ns-default -o yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubectl get polr -n default polr-ns-default -o yaml
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
```

    …
    results:
    - message: 'validation error: Non root security context is not set. Rule container-security-context failed at path /spec/containers/0/securityContext/'
      policy: validate-securitycontext
      resources:
      - apiVersion: v1
        kind: Pod
        name: nginx
        namespace: default
        uid: 319e5b09-6027-4d90-b3da-6aa1f14573ff
      result: fail
      rule: container-security-context
      scored: true
      source: Kyverno
      timestamp:
        nanos: 0
        seconds: 1654594319
      summary:
        error: 0
        fail: 1
        pass: 0
        skip: 0
        warn: 0
    ```

2. Apply the mutation policy and restart the following workload.
    ```text
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
    containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
    ```

3. Check the policy report status.

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
    ```bash
```

>     kubectl get polr -A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubectl get polr -A
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
```

* Validate, mutate, and generate resource configurations.
* Select resources based on labels and wildcards.
* Block non-conformant resources using admission controls, or report policy violations.
* View policy enforcement as events.
* Scan existing resources for violations.

Kyverno policies implement the various levels of Kubernetes [Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) for CSM services.

The policies are minimally restrictive and enforces the best practices for pods. The policies make sure the following values are set for workloads (if not present).

```text
securityContext:
  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
  privileged: false
  runAsUser: 65534
  runAsNonRoot: true
  runAsGroup: 65534
```

Currently, [mutation](#mutation) and [validation](#validation) policies are enforced for the network services such as load balancer and virtualservice.

## Mutation

Mutation policies are applied in the admission controller while creating pods.

It mutates the manifest of respective workloads before creating it so that when resource comes up, it will abide by the policy constraints.

### Example

1. Create a sample policy.

> 	```text

Reviewer: General note that the code blocks should all line up with the first word of a step.
For example:

```
1. Create a sample policy.

   "```bash"
   example output
   "```"
```

Author: It's already aligned

Author: The discrepancy is due to the different editor I was using. I have corrected it now!

    apiVersion: kyverno.io/v1
    kind: Policy
    metadata:
      name: add-default-securitycontext
    spec:
    rules:
      - name: set-container-security-context
        match:
          resources:
            kinds:
            - Pod
            selector:
              matchLabels:
                app: nginx
        mutate:
          patchStrategicMerge:
            spec:
              containers:
              - (name): "*"
                securityContext:
                  +(allowPrivilegeEscalation): false
                  +(privileged): false
	```

2. Create a simple pod.

> 	```text

Author: It's already taken care!

> 	```text

Author: The discrepancy is due to the different editor I was using. I have corrected it now!

    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
    containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
	```

> 	List all of the policies with the following command:

Author: Please look at the latest patch -> https://github.com/sriramss/docs-csm/blob/43d7f3cca47faae7bccea9c34066fcda6a357c54/operations/kyverno/Kyverno.md 
It's all properly indented. Any change would distort the formatting.

> 	List all of the policies with the following command:

Author: @nrockershousen

> 	List all of the policies with the following command:

Author: The discrepancy is due to the different editor I was using. I have corrected it now!

It mutates the manifest of respective workloads before creating it so that when resource comes up, it will abide by the policy constraints.

### Example

1. Create a sample policy.

    ```text
    apiVersion: kyverno.io/v1
    kind: Policy
    metadata:
      name: add-default-securitycontext
    spec:
    rules:
      - name: set-container-security-context
        match:
          resources:
            kinds:
            - Pod
            selector:
              matchLabels:
                app: nginx
        mutate:
          patchStrategicMerge:
            spec:
              containers:
              - (name): "*"
                securityContext:
                  +(allowPrivilegeEscalation): false
                  +(privileged): false
    ```

2. Create a simple pod.

    ```text
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
    containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
    ```

    (`ncn#`) List all of the policies with the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl get pol -A
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        terminationMessagePolicy: File
        volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount
          name: default-token-vgggw
          readOnly: true
    ...
    ```

4. Edit the policy to add one more field and apply the policy again.

    ```text
    apiVersion: kyverno.io/v1
    kind: Policy
    metadata:
      name: add-default-securitycontext
    spec:
    rules:
      - name: set-container-security-context
        match:
          resources:
            kinds:
            - Pod
            selector:
              matchLabels:
                app: nginx
        mutate:
          patchStrategicMerge:
            spec:
              containers:
              - (name): "*"
                securityContext:
                  +(allowPrivilegeEscalation): false
                  +(privileged): false
                  +(runAsNonRoot): true
    ```

    If any of the workloads fail to come up after enforcing the policy, then delete the individual policies and restart the workload.

5. (`ncn#`) Check the pod description when the pod fails to come up.
    
    Obtain the pod name:
    
    ```bash

>     kubectl get pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubectl get pods
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
```

   
    NAME    READY   STATUS                       RESTARTS   AGE
    nginx   0/1     CreateContainerConfigError   0          5s
    ```
    
    Describe the pod:
    
    ```bash

>     kubectl describe pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubectl describe pods
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
```

      result: fail
      rule: container-security-context
      scored: true
      source: Kyverno
      timestamp:
        nanos: 0
        seconds: 1654594319
      summary:
        error: 0
        fail: 1
        pass: 0
        skip: 0
        warn: 0
    ```

2. Apply the mutation policy and restart the following workload.
    
    ```text
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
    containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
    ```

3. Check the policy report status.
    
    ```bash
    kubectl get polr -A
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text

    NAMESPACE  NAME                   PASS   FAIL   WARN   ERROR   SKIP   AGE
    default    polr-ns-default        1      0      0      0       0      25d
    …
    ```

    This shows that the mutation policy for the workload was enforced properly.

    If there are any discrepancies, we can look at the detailed policy report to triage the issue.

## Known issues

1. [False positive audit logs are generated for Validation policy](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/issues/3970)

> 2. [No event is generated incase of mutation policy being apppled to a resource](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/issues/2160)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [No event is generated in case of mutation policy being applied to a resource](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/issues/2160)
```

          readOnly: true
    ...
    ```

4. Edit the policy to add one more field and apply the policy again.

    ```text
    apiVersion: kyverno.io/v1
    kind: Policy
    metadata:
      name: add-default-securitycontext
    spec:
    rules:
      - name: set-container-security-context
        match:
          resources:
            kinds:
            - Pod
            selector:
              matchLabels:
                app: nginx
        mutate:
          patchStrategicMerge:
            spec:
              containers:
              - (name): "*"
                securityContext:
                  +(allowPrivilegeEscalation): false
                  +(privileged): false
                  +(runAsNonRoot): true
    ```

    If any of the workloads fail to come up after enforcing the policy, then delete the individual policies and restart the workload.

5. (`ncn#`) Check the pod description when the pod fails to come up.
    Obtain the pod name:
    ```bash
    kubectl get pods
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
   
    NAME    READY   STATUS                       RESTARTS   AGE
    nginx   0/1     CreateContainerConfigError   0          5s

>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```

```

    Normal   Scheduled         <invalid>                      default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/nginx to ncn-w003-b7534262
    Warning  DNSConfigForming  <invalid> (x9 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Search Line limits were exceeded, some search paths have been omitted, the applied search line is: default.svc.cluster.local svc.cluster.local cluster.local vshasta.io us-central1-b.c.vsha-sri-ram-35682334251634485.internal c.vsha-sri-ram-35682334251634485.internal
    Normal   Pulled            <invalid> (x8 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Container image "nginx:1.14.2" already present on machine
    Warning  Failed            <invalid> (x8 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Error: container has runAsNonRoot and image will run as root (pod: "nginx_default(0ea1d573-219a-4927-b3c3-c76150d35a7a)", container: nginx)
    ```

6. (`ncn#`) If the previous step failed, delete the policy and restart the workload.

    ```bash
    kubectl delete pol -n default add-default-securitycontext
    ```

7. (`ncn#`) Check the pod status after deleting the policy.

    ```bash
    kubectl get pods
    ```

>     Example output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Example output:

```

    …
    ```

    (`ncn#`) View a detailed policy report with the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl get polr -n default polr-ns-default -o yaml
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
    …
    results:
    - message: 'validation error: Non root security context is not set. Rule container-security-context failed at path /spec/containers/0/securityContext/'
      policy: validate-securitycontext
      resources:
      - apiVersion: v1
        kind: Pod
        name: nginx
        namespace: default
        uid: 319e5b09-6027-4d90-b3da-6aa1f14573ff
      result: fail
      rule: container-security-context
      scored: true
      source: Kyverno
      timestamp:
        nanos: 0
        seconds: 1654594319
      summary:
        error: 0
        fail: 1
        pass: 0
        skip: 0
        warn: 0
    ```

2. Apply the mutation policy and restart the following workload.
    ```text
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
    containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
    ```

> 3. (`ncn#`) Check the policy report status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. (`ncn#`) Check the policy report status.

```

# Kyverno policy management

[Kyverno](https://kyverno.io/) is a policy engine designed specifically for Kubernetes.

Kyverno allows cluster administrators to manage environment specific configurations independently of workload configurations and enforce configuration best practices for their clusters.

Kyverno can be used to scan existing workloads for best practices, or can be used to enforce best practices by blocking or mutating API requests.

Kyverno enables administrators to do the following:
* Manage policies as Kubernetes resources.
* Validate, mutate, and generate resource configurations.
* Select resources based on labels and wildcards.

> * Block non-conformant resources using admission controls, or report policy violations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Block nonconforming resources using admission controls, or report policy violations.
```

* View policy enforcement as events.
* Scan existing resources for violations.

Kyverno policies implement the various levels of Kubernetes [Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) for CSM services.

The policies are minimally restrictive and enforces the best practices for pods. The policies make sure the following values are set for workloads (if not present).

```text
securityContext:
  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
  privileged: false
  runAsUser: 65534
  runAsNonRoot: true
  runAsGroup: 65534
```

Currently, [mutation](#mutation) and [validation](#validation) policies are enforced for the network services such as load balancer and virtual service.

## Mutation

Mutation policies are applied in the admission controller while creating pods.

It mutates the manifest of respective workloads before creating it so that when resource comes up, it will abide by the policy constraints.

> ### Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example mutation policy
```

          readOnly: true
    ...
    ```

4. Edit the policy to add one more field and apply the policy again.

    ```text
    apiVersion: kyverno.io/v1
    kind: Policy
    metadata:
      name: add-default-securitycontext
    spec:
    rules:
      - name: set-container-security-context
        match:
          resources:
            kinds:
            - Pod
            selector:
              matchLabels:
                app: nginx
        mutate:
          patchStrategicMerge:
            spec:
              containers:
              - (name): "*"
                securityContext:
                  +(allowPrivilegeEscalation): false
                  +(privileged): false
                  +(runAsNonRoot): true
    ```

    If any of the workloads fail to come up after enforcing the policy, then delete the individual policies and restart the workload.

5. (`ncn#`) Check the pod description when the pod fails to come up.
    
    Obtain the pod name:
    
    ```bash
    kubectl get pods
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
   
    NAME    READY   STATUS                       RESTARTS   AGE
    nginx   0/1     CreateContainerConfigError   0          5s
    ```

>     

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

    Describe the pod:

>     

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

    Name:         nginx
    Namespace:    default
    .
    .
    .
    Events:
    Type     Reason            Age                            From               Message
    ----     ------            ----                           ----               -------
    Normal   Scheduled         <invalid>                      default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/nginx to ncn-w003-b7534262
    Warning  DNSConfigForming  <invalid> (x9 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Search Line limits were exceeded, some search paths have been omitted, the applied search line is: default.svc.cluster.local svc.cluster.local cluster.local vshasta.io us-central1-b.c.vsha-sri-ram-35682334251634485.internal c.vsha-sri-ram-35682334251634485.internal
    Normal   Pulled            <invalid> (x8 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Container image "nginx:1.14.2" already present on machine
    Warning  Failed            <invalid> (x8 over <invalid>)  kubelet            Error: container has runAsNonRoot and image will run as root (pod: "nginx_default(0ea1d573-219a-4927-b3c3-c76150d35a7a)", container: nginx)
    ```

6. (`ncn#`) If the previous step failed, delete the policy and restart the workload.

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    ```bash
```

    kubectl delete pol -n default add-default-securitycontext
    ```

7. (`ncn#`) Check the pod status after deleting the policy.

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    ```bash
```

    kubectl get pods
    ```

    Example output:

>     

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

    ```text
    NAME    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    nginx   1/1     Running   0          6s
    ```

## Validation

Validation policies can be applied any time in `audit` and `enforce` modes.

Violation is only reported in case of `audit` mode and it blocks the resources from coming up when applied in `enforce` mode.

Also, it generates the report of policy violation in respective workloads. The following is an example of the validation policy in `audit` mode.

> ### Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example validation policy
```

      timestamp:
        nanos: 0
        seconds: 1654594319
      summary:
        error: 0
        fail: 1
        pass: 0
        skip: 0
        warn: 0
    ```

2. Apply the mutation policy and restart the following workload.
    
    ```text
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
    containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
    ```

3. Check the policy report status.
    
    ```bash
    kubectl get polr -A
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text

    NAMESPACE  NAME                   PASS   FAIL   WARN   ERROR   SKIP   AGE
    default    polr-ns-default        1      0      0      0       0      25d
    …
    ```

    This shows that the mutation policy for the workload was enforced properly.

    If there are any discrepancies, we can look at the detailed policy report to triage the issue.

## Known issues

1. [False positive audit logs are generated for Validation policy](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/issues/3970)
2. [No event is generated in case of mutation policy being applied to a resource](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/issues/2160)

> 2. [Inaccurate annotations are created after applying the policy](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/issues/3473)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Inaccurate annotations are created after applying the policy](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/issues/3473)
```

                  privileged: false
    ```

    (`ncn#`) View the policy report status with the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl get polr -A
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
    NAMESPACE  NAME                   PASS   FAIL   WARN   ERROR   SKIP   AGE
    default    polr-ns-default        0      1      0      0       0      25d
    …
    ```

    (`ncn#`) View a detailed policy report with the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl get polr -n default polr-ns-default -o yaml
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
    …
    results:
    - message: 'validation error: Non root security context is not set. Rule container-security-context failed at path /spec/containers/0/securityContext/'
      policy: validate-securitycontext
      resources:
      - apiVersion: v1
        kind: Pod
        name: nginx
        namespace: default
        uid: 319e5b09-6027-4d90-b3da-6aa1f14573ff
      result: fail
      rule: container-security-context
      scored: true
      source: Kyverno
      timestamp:
        nanos: 0
        seconds: 1654594319
      summary:
        error: 0
        fail: 1
        pass: 0
        skip: 0
        warn: 0
    ```

> 2. Apply the mutation policy and restart the following workload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Apply the mutation policy and restart the following workload.

```

    ```bash
    kubectl get polr -A
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
    NAMESPACE  NAME                   PASS   FAIL   WARN   ERROR   SKIP   AGE
    default    polr-ns-default        0      1      0      0       0      25d
    …
    ```

    (`ncn#`) View a detailed policy report with the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl get polr -n default polr-ns-default -o yaml
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
    …
    results:
    - message: 'validation error: Non root security context is not set. Rule container-security-context failed at path /spec/containers/0/securityContext/'
      policy: validate-securitycontext
      resources:
      - apiVersion: v1
        kind: Pod
        name: nginx
        namespace: default
        uid: 319e5b09-6027-4d90-b3da-6aa1f14573ff
      result: fail
      rule: container-security-context
      scored: true
      source: Kyverno
      timestamp:
        nanos: 0
        seconds: 1654594319
      summary:
        error: 0
        fail: 1
        pass: 0
        skip: 0
        warn: 0
    ```

2. Apply the mutation policy and restart the following workload.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
